Sometimes i just wish i were a spider,
legs sprawled, against a wall,
or a small crevice,
a calm place that i could tuck into, when it is cold.

Consumerism would lay dead for me.
Hand crafting a piece of art, so easily blown away by the wind,
like some kind of monk, carefully laying out each grain, only for one hand to destroy the other's creation.
But I'd have no skill.
It would all come naturally, instinctively, like  the mind of an artist, or the adventurism of a calligrapher, who spends days weaving, turning and linking the islands of this oh-so lost world.
Yet i have none of these, now.

Imagine a world without time;
no clocks, no calendars, no dials.
Yet this is how the spiders live,
their only clock; night and day,
their only calendar; the seasons,
and their only dials, being the ageing, as the years pass on, bringing new spiders onto this earth.
Spiders are never late, spiders are never early.
They live in the moment, waiting for the next one, yet satisfied with what they have right now.

And it's amazing,
how humans innovate, create.
Yet spiders have no drive to push further,
no need to go to the extends of space, or venture the depths of the ocean.
But for spiders?
Nothing. Ever. Changes.
And is it better that way?
As spiders don't need qualifications, certifications, or legislations just to be classed as functioning.
They have no need to fit into the jigsaw; of office or labour work,
led to make decisions in days, weeks, seconds, 
that could change the rest of a life.

And it's like that beauty of time,
the grace of each gold-crusted cog on a clock that turns so intricately,
the heavens and our stars, and the round moon that comes full every so often,
is our greatest antagoniser.

As we decide on things so crucial so fast,
a wrong one causing so much suffering in the end,
and a right one causing the same; except just for someone else.
Since the world was never truly free, it's all binary.
And would one feel any better, knowing that he was free, and the 
reason that he did nothing to change the world in life, lest the 
grass that he stepped on, or the webs that he unknowingly 
destroyed, was not the fault of the world, but was entirely his naive decisions?
Or would false hope be greater under a regime without choice; at 
least knowing that while not contributing alone to humanity, he was 
part of a grand clockwork, pushing his country further for future generations?

It seems like the world decided that we should all be alone, when 
pursuing our dreams, or just trying to make it better for our descendants.

And while the 'unfree', democratically enact their power to 
disagree, and break away from the crowd.

Spiders disagree too.
As while millions all descend from the same womb.
Spiders live alone, apart, and make a difference alone,
coating the walls in fresh sets of silk, and invisibly clearing the pests of our lives.
Yet somehow they have no human nature; no feelings of failure when their webs are destroyed, and their legacy blown full.

And still, the primitive humans can't shake the feeling that they have failed, unless they cure world hunger, war or some other stupid thing they made.

And maybe that's why so many people fear them?

And now i wonder;
do the spiders even know of the millennia of ancestors that came before them?
Or the magic of their web.
Or the wonders of the sublime things that brought them in existence?
Or are they just living?
In the moment.
